# Sequential-Machine-Design-Traffic-Light-Controller
Designing and building a synchronous sequential machine in VHDL
The finite state machine (FSM) method is a methodology for designing digital circuits. Like the algorithmic state method (ASM) shown in previous projects, it is used to design synchronous sequential circuits. The FSM method is better served for small machines, having few inputs and outputs. We went through the eight steps of the FSM methodology to design and implement a traffic light controller.
A traffic light controls the traffic at an intersection between a main street MS and a side street SS. The main street has higher priority than the side one, and thus stays green until at least one car on the side street arrives at the intersection. A car sensor SSCS is present on the side street for such a purpose. The sensor outputs a ’1’ at the presence of a car on the side street and a ’0’ otherwise. Normal operation of the traffic light consists of the main street’s traffic light (MSTL) being green and the side street’s (SSTL) being red. The MSTL stays green for a in-system-programmable (ISP) period of time MSC, after which if there is a car on the SS, the MSTL turns yellow for a set period MT, then turns to red. The SSTL then turns green for a ISP period of time SSC, after which it automatically turns yellow (even if there are cars at the intersection) for a set period SST, then red. The MSTL goes back to green at that point. If after MST, there are no cars on the SS, then the MSTL stays green until a car arrives, at which time, the MSTL immediately cycles through its yellow then red changes.
